how_to_test documentation (#47)
bit-bots/bitbots_tools: bitbots_docs/docs/manual/testing/testing.rst

===========
How to Test
===========

> General remarks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
General Remarks
```

===============

We want to test our software in a sensible manner because it is important that our software reliably works in a game.
A structured approach for testing offers a higher probability of success and is faster (so there is time left for tasks which are fun).

Tests are common in software development.
Therefore, they are a well researched field.
However, they are mostly applied to classical software development of servers and regular applications.
In robotics, the hardware and the connection to reality have to be considered as well.
So additionally to the usual problems, the Reality Gap influences the testing process.
The term Reality Gap describes the difference between simulation and reality.
Because of this, in simulation tested software may not necessarily work on the robot.

> Still, it is sensible to use classical test methods and tests in simulation at the beginning before testing on the robot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Still, it makes sense to use classical test methods and tests in simulation at the beginning before testing on the robot.
```

This saves time and protects the hardware.
Moreover, lots of mistakes can be found with this.
But it is essential to know that not all mistakes can be found with this method.

Our software is organized in packages.
Each one has a status tag which shows the current test status.
The test status of all packages is visualized in the architecture diagram.

> By the different levels an orientation is given about what has to be tested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Through the different levels an orientation is given about what has to be tested and which software already works well.
```

In the following, this will be explained in more detail.

Unit vs. Integration Testing
============================

In general, it is possible to test a package on its own, e.g., only the walking, or to test the integration of a package with several others, e.g., walking together with path planning.

> Hereby, it is sensible to test at first if each single component works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hereby, it makes sense to test first if each single component works.
```

After that, the integration of the components should be tested pairwise.
If this has been done successfully, the whole software stack can be tested.

> This represents a bottom-up approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a bottom-up approach.
```

Using this has the advantage that for surfacing errors it is clear which package caused them.

> Another not recommended approach would be the top-down approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another, not recommended, approach would be the top-down approach.
```

However this is computationally intensive, even if closer to reality.

Alternatively, we can use less accurate physics and just let the robot hover the ground instead of walking.
This is especially a good option for testing the behavior,

:code:roslaunch bitbots_bringup simulator.launch
Starts the simulator.

:code:roslaunch bitbots_bringup motion.launch sim:=true
Starts the motion in the simulator (Walking, Animation, HCM)

:code:roslaunch bitbots_bringup highlevel.launch sim:=true vision:=true
Starts highlevel software (Gamecontroller, Teamcomm, Behavior, Vision, Transformer, Localization, Pathfinding)

Testing on the robot (tested_robot)
--------------------------------------

If the other test phases are completed it is time to get the real robot.
For testing this it is especially important to explicitely test the edge cases.

Integration Testing (tested_integration)
========================================

Stable Software (stable)
-------------------------
By our definition software is considered stable if it has been used in multiple games without changes since then.

What to do when changing a package?
====================================================

> Even when only small changes are merged to the master branch, the package has to be tested again to keep its test status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even when only small changes are applied to the master branch, the package has to be tested again to keep its test status.
```
